# CPlusPlusProgram
my collegiate projects

The Stork-TheZoo Project was a project that opened a file and imported a list of animals for a zoo.
The user could add an animal, remove an animal, load the list, save the list and view the list.
The piece of code that I did particularaly well was the input and from the file.  With my method, the users can put in spaces in the name, and it will still have a valid input
I could enhance the code by turning it into a linked list rather than a vector.  I have a second version of the project where I tested making a linked list.
The most challenging part of this code was input verification from the user.  There are so many inputs that the user can enter that you have to make sure was input correctly.
To help me with this project, I used my textbook, taking snippits of code from it and testing it to make sure that my code would work
The skills that I feel will transfer into other courses will be my use of classes, parent and child classes.
I made this project readable and adaptable by using different files for every class.  This files can be copied and pasted into other projects, should the need arise.

Project 3 Software Design Template
This project we had a company, The Gamimg Room, come to our business to help expand their game to a web-based system for PC.  We were tasked in working through their constraints
and making recommendations on their way to move forward.  The parts that I worked on that I am proud is my in-depth responses to their needs.  Looking at multiple angles to make
sure that we were helping them make the right decision.
What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code? - The document showed the specific needs from the user.  We had
to work within their boundaries to make sure we made the correct product.
If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it? - I would look more into communicating with servers.  There
is so much information on the subjects that I would like to know about.  This would help me make a better decision when making a document for a client.
How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing? -  I looked at their
specific needs and turned them into constraints.  I made sure that those needs were met first so that the final product will be to their needs the first time.  This makes a 
happy client and a successful business on our part.
How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application? - My approach to designing
software to to make a list of the needs of the client.  Then I make one thing at time.  Once I am sure that section works, I move to the next section.  This way is a slow
process, but it hasn't failed.


CS360 - InventoryApp
Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
  -  In this course, we developed a mobile app for tracking Inventory.  The requirements of the app were to create a login page that required a username and password.  Then we were to create an inventory screen where we could show the items in in our inventory tracking.  Then we were also to create a page that requested SMS text messaging, so that when an inventory was low, we could send a text message to alert that stock was low.  This app was designed to replace a pen and paper style of inventory tracking.  This would keep tacking personal or company inventory in the palm of their hands.
What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
  -  The different screens and features that supported the users needs were the login screen for security, and the SMS request screen.  This would alert the user when a stock was low on inventory.  I tried to make the app to be a simple design for the user.  I tried to add an item and the inventory list on the same screen.  When an inventory needed to be updated, the user clicked on it on the list.  This would remove it from the list and it would be brought to the "add item" portion.  Then an inventory can be easily updated, then added back into the inventory.  this was successful to try to keep the inventory entering simple, easy and effective.
How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
  -  I coded my app one screen at a time.  I tested each portion with Toast messages.  When one screen was done, I made sure that I could transition to the next screen.  Then I coded the next screen.  The strategies I used were to reread my book and follow tutorials I found online.  The hard part is that the online tutorials were made in privous versions of Android Studio.  I had to adjust to current settings.  These same strategies can be applied in the future.  Trial and error.  As Thomas Edison said "I didn't fail 40,000 times.  I simply found 40,000 ways that creating a lightbulb WOULDN'T work.
How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
  -  I Testd all code with Toast messages.  When I tested for functionality, I checked to see if a toast message appeared and if it was the proper message.  This helped me make sure that I was on the right path.  Especially with the database.  This showed me that my databases were successful when I made them.
Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
  -  I think I innovated the most when it came to designing the screens.  I tried to keep it simple so that my coding wouldn't have to be as complex.  If I increased the complexity of my design, it would have done the same with my code, which would have led to more work than the 15 hours I spent on the app.
In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
  -  I feel that my most successful was creating the SQLiteDatabase.  I had the most fun with that.  It was fun to create the table column and then add and remove those items.  It has been a few terms since I worked with Java.  Luckily, there are alot of online references.
  
  
CS255 - Business Requirement Document and System Design Document
Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
  -  DriverPass was a new startup that wanted to change the way that training for a driver's test was done.  We were to design a system that would allow a user to log in and search thru available packages.  Once a package was purchased, they could register for driving courses.  Depending on package, they could also view online classes and take practice tests.
What did you do particularly well?
  -  I feel that I did my best work with creating the Business Requirement Documents.  I tried to think of everything that I could that could be needed to make sure the app was successful.
If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
  -  I would pick to revise my USE CASE diagram.  Although, I think that I had the major components, I think that I could have done a more extensive job with the work that DriverPass wanted.
How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
  -  I interpeted the user's needs thru the use cases.  This shows how the user can navigate thru the system to fulfill their goals.  The user should always be an important asset to designing an app.  The goals is to increase the number of users and retain them.  If your system isn't compatible with their needs, they will find another app.
How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
  -  When designing software, I try to create the products owners needs into functional requirements.  I try to design a system with those requirements and then make it easy for a user to navigate.  The best way, for me, to analyze and design a system is to write it down.  Reading from a document isn't the same as writing it.  I tend to remember more things when I have written it down.  I then try to transcribe those notes into a visual to be able to communicate to others.

CS305 - Artemis Financial Practices for Secure Software Report
Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
  -  The name of the client was Artemis Financial.  They had a desire to modernize its operations by implementing the most current and effective software security.  Our job was to add a checksum verification upon connection to the server.  We also generated a certificate and transferred Artemis Financial to HTTPS on port 443.
What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
  -  My best work was in creating the checksum verification.  I was able to encrypt a message using SHA-256 and create a unique hash for verification of connection.  The message was converted into hex for display.  It is important to code securely to maintain confidentiality, integrity, and availability.  Software security keeps users data confidential from potential threats.  It also keeps that data from being improperly updated and at the same time available to the user when it is needed.
What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?
  -  The most challenging part was getting a secure connection on port 443.  The CA seem to do a thourough job of making sure that a certificate is valid and that the authors of a website are properly identified.  Attempting to bypass this security with a self-made certificate was a struggle.
How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?
  -  I approached the need for increased security layers by adding the checksum verification.  This will help make sure that a session is unique to each user, while, simultaneously, making sure that the checksum generated is not able to be guessed by an intruder.  I would use a static testing tool like the Maven dependency check to assess vulnerabilities to determine mitigation techniques.
How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
  -  The way to ensure that the code was secure was to run a dependency check thru Maven and view the vulnerabilities that were found.  This report has many false positives so it is important to supress vulnerabilities that do not pertain to the current project.  The best way to determine if new vulnerabilities were introduced would be to run the dependency check again after refactoring to make sure that no new items were added to the report.
What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?
  -  The resource that I would use would be the Maven dependency check and the report that it generates.  This scoures through the NIST Vulnerability Database for dependencies with reported flaws.  These flaws can then be mitigated.  The practice that I use would be to secure inputs from a user to make sure the program was secure.
Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?
  -  I would show the use of the static testing tool, Maven and the vulnerability report that it shows.  Then I would also show my supression of false positives.  I would also like to demonstrate my ability to create a checksum verification on a static message.


CS340 Final Dashboard code and README file
How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
  -  The way that I created code was to create it to be as re-usable as possible.  I created functions that could be used in different applications with minimal changing to adapt to a new project.  The background program that we created was a CRUD component to MongoDB.  We were able to interact with the database in python to Create, Read, Update and Delete.  This made the second project easier as we could import that module without having to recreate the code.  This CRUD module can be used again in future projects by changing the database that is being accessed, then it can be used.
How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
  -  As a computer scientist, I try to break down a problem into different managable components.  After they are broken down, I try to work on one at a time.  I then combine my code to make sure that all functions work together.  I think that this approach works well and makes the project seem more manageable as you are not overwhelmed by trying to do too many things at once.  This also helps when getting requirements from a client.  We can take their needs and break them down into managble working modules that will solve their problems.
What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
  -  Computer Scientists write code and develop applications to solve problems and prepare for the future.  This can make a large project run faster and with less downtime to make a company more effective.  A company that can adapt to an ever-changing environement has a better chance of succeeding.  In our example, rather than scouring through a database by hand, we were able to create a program to go thru this database in seconds for exact animals that we were looking for.

CS330 -Computer Graphics and Visualization (OpenGL)
How do I approach designing software? 
  -  This class has taught me how to design basic 2D and 3D objects with OpenGL.  Before this course, everything was just typed interface.  Each week was a build up from the week before, so when a new week would start, I would work with code that I know how to make, and then add new implimenation into that.  This can be applied to my future work as well, taking modular code that I have written from previous works and reusing them into a new project.
How do I approach developing programs? 
  -  When developing a program I try to break the large goal down into smaller, more manageable pieces.  I would build a piece and test it to make sure that it works the way that I want.  Once it does, then I move onto the next step.  This course was no different in my development process, where my code functions before I move onto something else.  This resulted in my finished scene.  Where I was able to recreate a scene from a picture I have taken.
How can computer science help me in reaching my goals? 
  -  There are many projects that can be created from the building blocks using skills that I have gained in this course.  I don't know what my future holds for Graphical Computation, but more knowledge can never be a bad thing.  This project helped me in thinking of new ways by using libraries that have been created by others and put them to use.  This can be used in my future works.  Why remake the wheel?  If someone has had the same issue with a project, or created open-source code, it may be worthwhile to look at the work done to see if it can be used for other projects.  One example of this was the Camera.h header file.  This had prewritten code that allowed mroe simple movement functionality with C++ and OpenGL

CS405 - Secure Coding.
  -  Contained in these ZIP file are all of my coding restructures for CS405.  These projects include Numeric Overflow Coding, SQL Injection, Buffer Overflow, Exceptions, Unit Testing, Encryption, and Static Code Analysis.  Also,for CS405 are my security policy and presentation.  There is also a journal reflection of what I learned in this course.

CS350 - Emerging System Arch & Tech
  - I have added my Morse Code Program.  In this program, we programmed two of the LED lights to blink Morse Code.  The first signal is SOS, then with a button press, it changes to OK. The problem that we were solving was to add an interrupt and how it can effect the environment.  The interrupt was the button press and how it would change the output of the LED lights. 
  - What did you do particularly well?  The way that I solved the problem was by creating modules that had the code inside of it.  For example, I created a module that did the morse code for the letter S.  The lights would blink accordingly.  Then in my main code, I would just call the letters as I needed them.
  - Where could you improve?  -I feel I could improve by creating modules for each dot and dash.  So that when I call a letter module, it would just call the apppropriate dots and dashes calls.
  - The other program that I have added was the Thermostat program.  In this program we read the current temperature, then we used the button interrupt to turn on or off the heat to increase the temperature.  Then the current temperature, and programmed temperature were displayed on screen.
  - What did you do particularly well? In this program, I feel that I created a consise program to solve the problem.  I used less variables to save on RAM, which is limited in space.
  - Where could you improve? In this one, I could have done better at creating a task scheduler, but that would create overhead that is not necessarly needed.  Another thing I think I could have done better would to have a temperature decrease button.  To increase functionality of the program.
  - What tools and/or resources are you adding to your support network? - From this class, I learned a lot from trial and error practicing.  Having the physical device in front of me and being able to test on the fly was a great asset to learn how these embedded systems work.
  - What skills from this project will be particularly transferable to other projects and/or course work? Working with embedded systems is very important.  Not all programming is software code.  Some code works directly with hardware.  This allows me the experience to work with hardware.  Also, embedded devices are only increasing in popularity.  
  - How did you make this project maintainable, readable, and adaptable? I added white space to make sure that each section had it's own space.  I also tried to modularize the code to make sure that it could be reusable if needed.  

  CS 370 Current/Emerging Trends
  - In this course we worked with programming simple AI systems.  The first system we had our AI learn handwritten numbers and to be able to accurately identify them.  The 2nd project, we Learned images of different objects in order to identify them.  Our final project was to use reinforcement learning of an AI in a map.  We would train our AI to guide it from beginning to end.  
  - The file I added was the Jupyter Notebook file with the code to make the AI learn and travel the map.
  - Briefly explain the work that you did on this project: What code were you given? What code did you create yourself? The code that we were given was the majority of the code.  We were given the model of the AI.  We were given the code for the possible moves that could be made by our AI.  We were given The map and the way that our AI would learn.  The code that we were to add was to implement the movements and the rewards for the movement.  Then we would add that experience to our model for future movement predictions.  If the AI ran out of moves or finished the map, it would exit the loop and start over.  When it had traversed the whole map, and had a 100% win rate over the last 32 traverses, we would mark that we completed the training.
  - What do computer scientists do and why does it matter? This is a really important field because it is the future for a range of products.  When humans are taken out of the learning equation, the computer can learn much faster without human input.  Learning may become exponential with this field of study.
  - How do I approach a problem as a computer scientist? I try to break down the problem into smaller problems.  Once broken down, I try to tackle them one at a time until the whole problem has been solved.  
  - What are my ethical responsibilities to the end user and the organization? It is my responsibility to not break any laws and stay within proper ethics protocol.  Beyond that it is also my responsibility to report anybody that is violating these ethical priorities.
